========================================
INFINIDAT InfiniBox Block Storage driver
========================================

The INFINIDAT Block Storage volume driver provides iSCSI and Fibre Channel
support for INFINIDAT InfiniBox storage systems.

This section explains how to configure the INFINIDAT driver.

Supported operations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Create, delete, attach, and detach volumes.
* Create, list, and delete volume snapshots.
* Create a volume from a snapshot.
* Copy a volume to an image.
* Copy an image to a volume.
* Clone a volume.
* Extend a volume.
* Get volume statistics.
* Create, modify, delete, and list consistency groups.
* Create, modify, delete, and list snapshots of consistency groups.
* Create consistency group from consistency group or consistency group
  snapshot.

External package installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The driver requires the ``infinisdk`` package for communicating with
InfiniBox systems. Install the package from PyPI using the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install infinisdk

Setting up the storage array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Create a storage pool object on the InfiniBox array in advance.
The storage pool will contain volumes managed by OpenStack.
Refer to the InfiniBox manuals for details on pool management.

Driver configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Edit the ``cinder.conf`` file, which is usually located under the following
path ``/etc/cinder/cinder.conf``.

* Add a section for the INFINIDAT driver back end.

* Under the ``[DEFAULT]`` section, set the ``enabled_backends`` parameter with
  the name of the new back-end section.

Configure the driver back-end section with the parameters below.

* Configure the driver name by setting the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     volume_driver = cinder.volume.drivers.infinidat.InfiniboxVolumeDriver

* Configure the management IP of the InfiniBox array by adding the following
  parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     san_ip = InfiniBox management IP

* Configure user credentials.

  The driver requires an InfiniBox user with administrative privileges.
  We recommend creating a dedicated OpenStack user account
  that holds an administrative user role.
  Refer to the InfiniBox manuals for details on user account management.
  Configure the user credentials by adding the following parameters:

  .. code-block:: ini

     san_login = infinibox_username
     san_password = infinibox_password

* Configure the name of the InfiniBox pool by adding the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     infinidat_pool_name = Pool defined in InfiniBox

* The back-end name is an identifier for the back end.
  We recommend using the same name as the name of the section.
  Configure the back-end name by adding the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     volume_backend_name = back-end name

* Thin provisioning.

  The INFINIDAT driver supports creating thin or thick provisioned volumes.
  Configure thin or thick provisioning by adding the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     san_thin_provision = true/false

  This parameter defaults to ``true``.

* Configure the connectivity protocol.

  The InfiniBox driver supports connection to the InfiniBox system in both
  the fibre channel and iSCSI protocols.
  Configure the desired protocol by adding the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     infinidat_storage_protocol = iscsi/fc

  This parameter defaults to ``fc``.

* Configure iSCSI netspaces.

  When using the iSCSI protocol to connect to InfiniBox systems, you must
  configure one or more iSCSI network spaces in the InfiniBox storage array.
  Refer to the InfiniBox manuals for details on network space management.
  Configure the names of the iSCSI network spaces to connect to by adding
  the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     infinidat_iscsi_netspaces = iscsi_netspace

  Multiple network spaces can be specified by a comma separated string.

  This parameter is ignored when using the FC protocol.

* Configure CHAP

  InfiniBox supports CHAP authentication when using the iSCSI protocol. To
  enable CHAP authentication, add the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     use_chap_auth = true

  To manually define the username and password, add the following parameters:

  .. code-block:: ini

     chap_username = username
     chap_password = password

  If the CHAP username or password are not defined, they will be
  auto-generated by the driver.

  The CHAP parameters are ignored when using the FC protocol.

* Volume compression

  Volume compression is disabled by default.
  To enable volume compression, add the following parameter:

  .. code-block:: ini

     infinidat_use_compression = true

  Volume compression is available on InfiniBox 3.0 onward.

Configuration example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: ini

   [DEFAULT]
   enabled_backends = infinidat-pool-a

   [infinidat-pool-a]
   volume_driver = cinder.volume.drivers.infinidat.InfiniboxVolumeDriver
   volume_backend_name = infinidat-pool-a
   san_ip = 10.1.2.3
   san_login = openstackuser
   san_password = openstackpass
   san_thin_provision = true
   infinidat_pool_name = pool-a
   infinidat_storage_protocol = iscsi
   infinidat_iscsi_netspaces = default_iscsi_space

Driver-specific options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table contains the configuration options that are specific
to the INFINIDAT driver.

.. include:: ../../tables/cinder-infinidat.inc
